documentation/source/contributing.rst, before:

============
Contributing
============

Contributing has a few additional steps that may require some explanation for first-time users.
Here, we'll give you step-by-step instructions on how to setup github for contributing to this project,
how to format your code changes and how to generate updated documentation.

A few extra packages are required when contributing to QWAK:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install autopep8 pytest

`Autopep8 <https://pypi.org/project/autopep8/>`_ formats code according to the PEP 8 style.
`Pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/>`_ is responsible for unit testing the package to assure everything
working correctly after a change.




Setting up the repo for contributing
------------------------------------

#. Install `git <https://git-scm.com/.>`_.

#. Fork the `QWAK <https://github.com/JaimePSantos/QWAK>`_ repository to your account so you can work on own copy. This will allow you to open Pull Requests later.

#. Add the upstream repository:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git remote add upstream https://github.com/JaimePSantos/QWAK.git

#. Update your fork with:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git checkout main

   Followed by:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git pull --rebase upstream main

   This should be done somewhat regularly to ensure your fork is up-to-date with the most recent QWAK version.


#. Follow QWAK's `installation instructions <https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/installation.html>`_ in case you haven't installed the package yet.

Making your changes
-------------------

#. Checkout and sync your main branch with the upstream to reflect the newest version:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git checkout main
      git pull --rebase upstream main

#. Create a new branch to work on instead of main:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git checkout -b <new_branch_name> upstream/main

#. Make your changes.

#. Format your changed files with:

   .. code-block:: shell

      autopep8 --in-place --aggressive --aggressive --max-line-length 72 <path_to_file>

   Or, alternatively an entire folder with:

   .. code-block:: shell

      autopep8 --recursive --in-place --aggressive --aggressive --max-line-length 72 <path_to_folder>

#. Ensure your changes does not break the existing code by running the following command inside the main project folder:

   .. code-block:: shell

      pytest -v tests/

#. If all tests are successful, commit your changes:


   .. code-block:: shell

      git commit -am <commit message>

   Make sure you write a short descriptive message so that the changes on the commit can be easily identified.

#. Push your changes to your fork:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git push -u origin <branch name>

#. Visit your repo on github and create a pull request to the main repo!


Generating Documentation
------------------------

If you've added a new feature, or if you want to contribute to the documentation directly,
you will need to install `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`_ automates the process of creating
documentation pages:

* Via pip:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install sphinx

* On linux:

.. code-block:: shell

    apt-get install python3-sphinx

* On windows, you can install it via conda  (or `manually <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/installation.html#windows-other-method>`_):

.. code-block:: shell

    conda install sphinx

.. WARNING::

   Right now we have a :code:`documentation` folder separate from the :code:`docs` folder used to create github pages.
   This is probably not a good idea so some of these steps will be subject to change.

After the dependency is taken care of:

#. Generate basic documentation files for the package (probably already present in the repo so just skip):

   .. code-block:: shell

      sphinx-quickstart documentation/

#. From the main folder, navigate to the :code:`documentation` folder using :code:`cd documentation`.

#. If you've changed documentation of the Python code in the :code:`core` folder,run autodoc so these changes are compiled by Sphinx:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sphinx-apidoc -f -o source/ ../core/<modules>

#. Clean previous build files with :code:`make clean`.

#. Build the HTML doc pages :code:`make html`.

#. Copy the new contents to docs folder for github pages :code:`make linuxgit` or :code:`make github`.

#. Commit your changes and open a PR as described above.

Commit message:

Adding to contributing docs how to build and update your changed package

documentation/source/contributing.rst, after:

============
Contributing
============

Contributing has a few additional steps that may require some explanation for first-time users.
Here, we'll give you step-by-step instructions on how to setup github for contributing to this project,
how to format your code changes and how to generate updated documentation.

A few extra packages are required when contributing to QWAK:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install autopep8 pytest

`Autopep8 <https://pypi.org/project/autopep8/>`_ formats code according to the PEP 8 style.
`Pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/>`_ is responsible for unit testing the package to assure everything
working correctly after a change.




Setting up the repo for contributing
------------------------------------

#. Install `git <https://git-scm.com/.>`_.

#. Fork the `QWAK <https://github.com/JaimePSantos/QWAK>`_ repository to your account so you can work on own copy. This will allow you to open Pull Requests later.

#. Add the upstream repository:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git remote add upstream https://github.com/JaimePSantos/QWAK.git

#. Update your fork with:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git checkout main

   Followed by:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git pull --rebase upstream main

   This should be done somewhat regularly to ensure your fork is up-to-date with the most recent QWAK version.


#. Follow QWAK's `installation instructions <https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/installation.html>`_ in case you haven't installed the package yet.

Making your changes
-------------------

#. Checkout and sync your main branch with the upstream to reflect the newest version:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git checkout main
      git pull --rebase upstream main

#. Create a new branch to work on instead of main:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git checkout -b <new_branch_name> upstream/main

#. If this is the first time you're building the package:

   .. code-block:: shell

      python -m pip install --upgrade build
      python -m build

   This might not be needed, will test in the future and update the docs accordingly.

#. Make your changes.

#. Update your package to reflect the changes:

   .. code-block:: shell

      pip install . --no-cache-dir

#. Ensure your changes does not break the existing code by running the following command inside the main project folder:

   .. code-block:: shell

      pytest -v tests/

#. If all the tests are successfull, format your changed files with:

   .. code-block:: shell

      autopep8 --in-place --aggressive --aggressive --max-line-length 72 <path_to_file>

   Or, alternatively an entire folder with:

   .. code-block:: shell

      autopep8 --recursive --in-place --aggressive --aggressive --max-line-length 72 <path_to_folder>

#. Commit your changes:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git commit -am <commit message>

   Make sure you write a short descriptive message so that the changes on the commit can be easily identified.

#. Push your changes to your fork:

   .. code-block:: shell

      git push -u origin <branch name>

#. Visit your repo on github and create a pull request to the main repo!


Generating Documentation
------------------------

If you've added a new feature, or if you want to contribute to the documentation directly,
you will need to install `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`_ automates the process of creating
documentation pages:

* Via pip:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install sphinx

* On linux:

.. code-block:: shell

    apt-get install python3-sphinx

* On windows, you can install it via conda  (or `manually <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/installation.html#windows-other-method>`_):

.. code-block:: shell

    conda install sphinx

.. WARNING::

   Right now we have a :code:`documentation` folder separate from the :code:`docs` folder used to create github pages.
   This is probably not a good idea so some of these steps will be subject to change.

After the dependency is taken care of:

#. Generate basic documentation files for the package (probably already present in the repo so just skip):

   .. code-block:: shell

      sphinx-quickstart documentation/

#. From the main folder, navigate to the :code:`documentation` folder using :code:`cd documentation`.

#. If you've changed documentation of the Python code in the :code:`core` folder,run autodoc so these changes are compiled by Sphinx:

   .. code-block:: shell

      sphinx-apidoc -f -o source/ ../core/<modules>

#. Clean previous build files with :code:`make clean`.

#. Build the HTML doc pages :code:`make html`.

#. Copy the new contents to docs folder for github pages :code:`make linuxgit` or :code:`make github`.

#. Commit your changes and open a PR as described above.
