README.md, before:

# QWAK
Quantum Walk Analysis Kit - Continuous-time quantum walk analysis framework.



## Table of Contents:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Requirements
- Numpy
- Scipy
- Sympy
- matplotlib
- networkx
- QuTip
- eel

## Installation

Installing the package is very straightforward. Firstly, clone the project and then install the requirements via pip, followed by `pip install .` in the cloned folder. A virtual environment is highly recommended.

Step-by-step installation instructions can be found in the documentation [installation](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/installation.html) page.



## Usage
A basic plot of the probability distribution for a CTQW with a walker starting in a superposition of central positions, in a cyclic graph, can be achieved via the following example:
```python
import networkx as nx
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from qwak.qwak import QWAK

n = 100
t = 12
initState = [n//2,n//2 + 1]
graph = nx.cycle_graph(n)

qwak = QWAK(graph)
qwak.runWalk(t,initState)

probVec = qwak.getProbVec()
plt.plot(probVec)
plt.show()
```
Further examples exploring all the different components will be available once the [usage](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/usage.html) documentation is complete.

## Documentation
Documentation is a work in progress, and can be found in this [page](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/).

## Contributing
#### Changes to the package
1. Upgrade your build package with `python -m pip install --upgrade build`.
2. Edit the package to reflect your changes.
3. Build the distribution files by running `python -m build`.
4. Reinstall the package without using previously cached versions with `pip install . --no-cache-dir`.
5. For some reason in windows you may need to use `python -m pip install . --no-cache-dir --use-feature=in-tree-build`

#### Commit the changes the github repo
1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your github fork git ```clone https://github.com/<your-username>/QWAK.git```
3. Navigate to the project folder ```cd QWAK```
4. Add the upstream repo ```git remote add upstream https://github.com/JaimePSantos/QWAK.git```
5. Update your fork with ```git checkout main``` and ```git pull --rebase upstream main```
6. Create a branch for the changes instead of working off your local main branch ```git checkout -b <new branch name> upstream/main```
7. Make your changes.
8. Format your code with ```autopep8 --in-place --aggressive --aggressive --max-line-length 72 .\core\qwak\qwak.py```
9. Commit your changes: ```git commit -am <Commit message>```
10. Push your changes to your fork ```git push -u origin <branch name>```
11. Visit your repo on github and create a pull request to the main repo!

#### Building Documentation
1. Install the [sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) `pip install sphinx`
2. Generate basic documentation files for the package `sphinx-quickstart documentation/` (probably already present in the repo so just skip)
3. Generate autodoc files from the modules you want to document `sphinx-apidoc -f -o source/ ../core/<modules>`
4. Clean previous build files `make clean`
5. Build html documentation page `make html`
6. Copy the new contents to docs folder for github pages `make linuxgit` or `make github`

Commit message:

Finishing contributing documentation page. Updating the readme.

README.md, after:

# QWAK
Quantum Walk Analysis Kit - Continuous-time quantum walk analysis framework.



## Table of Contents:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Requirements
- Numpy
- Scipy
- Sympy
- matplotlib
- networkx
- QuTip
- eel

## Installation

Installing the package is very straightforward. Firstly, clone the project and then install the requirements via pip, followed by `pip install .` in the cloned folder. A virtual environment is highly recommended.

Step-by-step installation instructions can be found in the documentation [installation](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/installation.html) page.



## Usage
A basic plot of the probability distribution for a CTQW with a walker starting in a superposition of central positions, in a cyclic graph, can be achieved via the following example:
```python
import networkx as nx
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from qwak.qwak import QWAK

n = 100
t = 12
initState = [n//2,n//2 + 1]
graph = nx.cycle_graph(n)

qwak = QWAK(graph)
qwak.runWalk(t,initState)

probVec = qwak.getProbVec()
plt.plot(probVec)
plt.show()
```
Further examples exploring all the different components will be available once the [usage](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/usage.html) documentation is complete.

## Documentation
Documentation is a work in progress, and can be found in this [page](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/).

## Contributing

#### Extra requirements
- autopep8
- pytest
- sphinx

Contributing to the package follows a relatively simple workflow. After performing the necessary setup procedures, 
you will update your fork with the latest version of the QWAK project. You can now perform your changes, format 
them and test them. If a new feature is added, you will need to add docstrings to the new methods and update the
existing documentation accordingly. If your contribution is directly to the documentation, you will follow a similar procedure.

Step-by-step instructions on how to setup all the required components for organized contribution can be found
on the [contributing](https://jaimepsantos.github.io/QWAK/) documentation page.
